The White Paper
The expansion of city's, global warming and a ever increasing population are putting huge strains on the natural resources that we have. Ecology's that have taken hundreds of years to form are being wiped out in a matter of days often for little benefit. We feel that something drastic needs to be done. The Punjab Protocol aims to make these changes benefit the wider community through education and independence. Empowering Farmers to make the best use of their land and providing them with huge DATA sets to make the business decisions easier and more profitable. By Partnering with us and helping us maintain a large network of sensors designed to take frequent readings and forward the DATA on to the main network through the GOOGLE IOT we will get detailed information regarding the farming process. By conducting small and large scale tests on a variety of methods ranging from High rise indoor farms to outdoor multi level farms we aim to document the best conditions to grow all types of crops.
The location of the Punjab region of Pakistan make it a rich source of DATA as the area varies from hot dry desert to lush green mountain ranges with snow capped tops. The Farming industry itself is the main source of income for around 80% of the population, from day labour during harvesting, transporting the produce to market, wholesalers, street vendors and stall holders its a huge economy that hasn't changed much for a few decades. We believe that we can add great value by providing the training and making the DATA available for the small family Farm and commercial businesses alike. There is so much that will need updating from the infrastructure up that it will be hugely profitable. We will also be testing micro urban farms minimising the distance the produce needs to travel to the consumer. By providing us access to this DATA we will help the Farming community by providing subsidised Plant and Machinery and incentives with our native block-chain token the ISH coin. Most work on the Farms is carried out using heavy duty electric motors or large diesel tractors. We will help to make the change to powerful yet low voltage BLDC motors and battery backed up solar power.
The most powerful features we will implement are our DAPPS and native crypto The ISH Coin. These will give access to training and trading all with minimal complications. A Dedicated Video Training APP, The DATA Portal connecting farms to our network and providing weather info, A Dedicated Wholesale Market APP, A Crypto Exchange our very own DEX, A On-line Store for farming consumables and a community Forum to share ideas and build a close knit community.
Our project has huge scalability potential all across the world and with more and more people leaving rural areas and settling into city life we could be losing a vital workforce or face sudden food shortages without this intervention. We aim to help farmers extend the shelf life of their produce by making tinning and freezing easily accessible. Already many products are exported and there is a untameable demand for more, we want the producers to receive more of a fair share of these profits and so providing a more sustainable business. We aim to introduce wide scale natural and organic methods to replace pesticides and fertilisers for a more nutritious product.
It is difficult to list out the scope of the change but in the near future agricultural products especially organic produce will become so much more valuable and as we begin our journey into space technologies for reproducing these growing methods on other planets or space stations will become key to their success. Join us on our journey to a clean, green world and beyond...
